# Default_Probability_in_Marketplace_Loans
Marketplace loans are loans made in P2P consumer platforms. P2P lending is an emerging Internet-based application where individuals can directly borrow money from each other. This market is an important fintech market. The past decade has witnessed the rapid development and prevalence of online P2P lending platforms, examples of which include Prosper, Lending Club, and Kiva. Meanwhile, extensive research has been done that mainly focuses on the studies of platform mechanisms and transaction data. In this project, I first discuss about the evolution and the state of the market (i.e., volumes, borrower characteristics, loan characteristics). Then, I analyze the real-world data from this market from LendingClub.com and provide insights into default behavior (i.e., what borrower characteristics and environmental conditions lead to default) using logistic regression analysis. The model predicts/estimates whether the loan would be a default or no (y-variable) based on various factors(x-variable). The findings illustrate how, for different factors such as interest rate, term, etc plays roles in predicting loan default for a given data. The model has predictability accuracy of 73% which can help lenders to estimate the probability of default in the given dataset. Then, I analyze loan portfolio (i.e., how portfolio given different returns depending on borrower characteristics). Factors explaining default are loan purpose, annual income, current housing situation, interest rate, credit history, indebtedness and interest rate. The grade assigned by the site is the most predictive factor of default, but the accuracy of the model is improved by adding other information, especially the borrower’s debt level. Finally, I propose my opinions on the prospects of P2P lending and suggest some future research directions in this field.


# How to Run
- Download data files from https://www.kaggle.com/wordsforthewise/lending-club
- Unzip the files at location data/lc_data
- Run main.ipynb